
Aim:
Virtualization Environment
To learn the Virtualization setup with QEMU system and installing FreeDos in virtual machine.


Theory:
VIRTUALIZATION:
Virtualization is creation of Virtual Machines which can emulate hardware in software or in other words
it is the creation of virtual version of something such as a hardware platform, operating system, storage
device, or network resources (from Wikipedia). Virtualization is achieved or created with the help of
software and this particular software allows you to install any number of OS on your system without
using the available hardware directly.
When you are running an OS over the top of another on your machine the whole environment acts like a
HOST and GUEST OS. The real operating system acts as a HOST and the OS run by virtualization
software acts as a GUEST OS.
The entire load balancing is actually done by the HOST operating system.
Types of Virtualization
There are mainly three types of virtualization.
■Full virtualization
■OS level virtualization
■Para virtualization


Full virtualization
As the name suggests everything in a system is virtualized which includes the processor, storage,
networking components etc. Virtual Box, VMware are example of “Full Virtualization” solutions.


OS Level virtualization
In this type of virtualization only applications are run inside the software. In this case the application is
given a platform to work. Isolation is created and the application is made to believe that it is the only
thing running on the system.


Para virtualization
It‟s a semi-virtualized environment created for the guest OS. A modified guest OS is created using a
hypervisor. “The intent of the modified interface is to reduce the portion of the guest‟s executiontime
spent performing operations which are substantially more difficult to run in a virtual environment
compared to a non-virtualized environment. The Para virtualization provides specially defined „hooks‟to
allow the guest(s) and host to request and acknowledge these tasks, which would otherwise be executed in
the virtual domain (where execution performance is worse). A successful Para virtualized platform may
allow the virtual machine monitor (VMM) to be simpler (by relocating execution of critical tasks fromthe
virtual domain to the host domain), and/or reduce the overall performance degradation of machineexecution inside the virtual-guest.”


Advantages of Virtualization
■One of the biggest advantages of virtualization is scalability i.e. the ability to expand. Whenever thereis
excessive load on some part of application in a server you can easily create a similar virtual environment
on a different server and configure the setup.
■Hardware maintenance cost is reduced because you don‟t need many servers to install different
applications.
■You can save a huge amount of energy by running one physical server instead of many and less power
backup is required.
■You can get faster and safer backups by taking live snapshot while server is running.
■You will get centralized monitoring of your resources as virtualization provides easy way of connecting
and maintaining your virtual servers.

QEMU:
QEMU is a generic and open source machine emulator and virtualizer.
When used as a machine emulator, QEMU can run OSes and programs made for one machine (e.g. an
ARM board) on a different machine (e.g. your own PC). By using dynamic translation, it achieves very
good performance.
When used as a virtualizer, QEMU achieves near native performances by executing the guest code
directly on the host CPU. QEMU supports virtualization when executing under the Xen hypervisor or
using the KVM kernel module in Linux. When using KVM, QEMU can virtualize x86, server and
embedded PowerPC, and S390 guests.
Latest version QEMU : 1.2.0






RESULT: FreeDos as the new OS has been installed on the VM.








commands:
1.sudo apt-get install qemu
2.sudo apt-get install qemu-kvm
3.apt show qemu-system-x86
4.kvm -version
5.qemu-img create puppy.vdi 10G
6.qemu-img create -f qcow2 puppy.qcow 10G
7.qemu-system-x86_64 -boot d -cdrom Desktop/fdbasecd.iso -m 512
